---
layout: post
title: "Role for visual experience in the development of direction-selective circuits"
author: "Rémi Bos, Christian Gainer & Marla B Feller"
year: "2016"
link: "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cub.2016.03.073"
presenter: "Giulia Spampinato"
date: 2016-05-11 09:30:00 +0200
categories: article
---

> Visually guided behavior can depend critically on detecting the direction of
> object movement. This computation is first performed in the retina where
> direction is encoded by direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs) that
> respond strongly to an object moving in the preferred direction and weakly to
> an object moving in the opposite, or null, direction (reviewed in [1]). DSGCs
> come in multiple types that are classified based on their morphologies,
> response properties, and targets in the brain. This study focuses on two
> types—ON and ON-OFF DSGCs. Though animals can sense motion in all directions,
> the preferred directions of DSGCs in adult retina cluster along distinct
> directions that we refer to as the cardinal axes. ON DSGCs have three cardinal
> axes—temporal, ventral, and dorsonasal—while ON-OFF DSGCs have four—nasal,
> temporal, dorsal, and ventral. How these preferred directions emerge during
> development is still not understood. Several studies have demonstrated that ON
> [2] and ON-OFF DSGCs are well tuned at eye-opening, and even a few days prior
> to eye-opening, in rabbits [3], rats [4], and mice [5, 6, 7, 8], suggesting
> that visual experience is not required to produce direction-selective tuning.
> However, here we show that at eye-opening the preferred directions of both ON
> and ON-OFF DSGCs are diffusely distributed and that visual deprivation
> prevents the preferred directions from clustering along the cardinal axes.
> Our findings indicate a critical role for visual experience in shaping
> responses in the retina.
