---
layout: post
title: "Convis: a toolbox to fit and simulate filter-based models of early visual processing"
author: "Jacob Huth, Timothée Masquelier & Angelo Arleo"
year: "2018"
link: "https://doi.org/10.3389/fninf.2018.00009"
presenter: "Jacob Huth"
date: 2017-05-10 09:30:00 +0200
categories: article
---

> We developed Convis, a Python simulation toolbox for large scale neural
> populations which offers arbitrary receptive fields by 3D convolutions
> executed on a graphics card. The resulting software proves to be flexible and
> easily extensible in Python, while building on the PyTorch library (The
> Pytorch Project, 2017), which was previously used successfully in deep
> learning applications, for just-in-time optimization and compilation of the
> model onto CPU or GPU architectures. An alternative implementation based on
> Theano (Theano Development Team, 2016) is also available, although not fully
> supported. Through automatic differentiation, any parameter of a specified
> model can be optimized to approach a desired output which is a significant
> improvement over e.g., Monte Carlo or particle optimizations without
> gradients. We show that a number of models including even complex
> non-linearities such as contrast gain control and spiking mechanisms can be
> implemented easily. We show in this paper that we can in particular recreate
> the simulation results of a popular retina simulation software VirtualRetina
> (Wohrer and Kornprobst, 2009), with the added benefit of providing (1)
> arbitrary linear filters instead of the product of Gaussian and exponential
> filters and (2) optimization routines utilizing the gradients of the model. We
> demonstrate the utility of 3d convolution filters with a simple direction
> selective filter. Also we show that it is possible to optimize the input for a
> certain goal, rather than the parameters, which can aid the design of
> experiments as well as closed-loop online stimulus generation. Yet, Convis is
> more than a retina simulator. For instance it can also predict the response of
> V1 orientation selective cells. Convis is open source under the GPL-3.0
> license and available from https://github.com/jahuth/convis/ with
> documentation at https://jahuth.github.io/convis/.
