---
layout: post
title: "Deep learning models of the retinal response to natural scenes"
author: "Lane McIntosh, Niru Maheswaranathan, Aran Nayebi, Surya Ganguli & Stephen Baccus"
year: "2016"
link: "http://papers.nips.cc/paper/6388-deep-learning-models-of-the-retinal-response-to-natural-scenes"
presenter: "Baptiste Lefebvre"
date: 2017-01-18 09:30:00 +0200
categories: article
---

> A central challenge in sensory neuroscience is to understand neural
> computations and circuit mechanisms that underlie the encoding of
> ethologically relevant, natural stimuli. In multilayered neural circuits,
> nonlinear processes such as synaptic transmission and spiking dynamics present
> a significant obstacle to the creation of accurate computational models of
> responses to natural stimuli. Here we demonstrate that deep convolutional
> neural networks (CNNs) capture retinal responses to natural scenes nearly to
> within the variability of a cell's response, and are markedly more accurate
> than linear-nonlinear (LN) models and Generalized Linear Models (GLMs).
> Moreover, we find two additional surprising properties of CNNs: they are less
> susceptible to overfitting than their LN counterparts when trained on small
> amounts of data, and generalize better when tested on stimuli drawn from a
> different distribution (e.g. between natural scenes and white noise). An
> examination of the learned CNNs reveals several properties. First, a richer
> set of feature maps is necessary for predicting the responses to natural
> scenes compared to white noise. Second, temporally precise responses to slowly
> varying inputs originate from feedforward inhibition, similar to known retinal
> mechanisms. Third, the injection of latent noise sources in intermediate
> layers enables our model to capture the sub-Poisson spiking variability
> observed in retinal ganglion cells. Fourth, augmenting our CNNs with recurrent
> lateral connections enables them to capture contrast adaptation as an emergent
> property of accurately describing retinal responses to natural scenes. These
> methods can be readily generalized to other sensory modalities and stimulus
> ensembles. Overall, this work demonstrates that CNNs not only accurately
> capture sensory circuit responses to natural scenes, but also can yield
> information about the circuit's internal structure and function.
